# Kernel-Code-Module-Implementation-Page-Cache-Information-
In the project, we are requested to create a module in order to show some information about processes. The currently work processes are shown in the terminal with “ps" command. We see some information such as their process id in the list however we are requested to find some more detailed. The open source Kernel code was reviewed for this purpose. Especially fs struct and files struct helped majority of the information. When we review the Kernel, we see a big order and implementations were nested. Also it was very hard to find an information inside because of it’s bad variable naming. We are requested to reach and print the informations which are descriptor number, current file position pointer, user’s id, process access mode, name of the file, in-ode number of the file, file length in bytes, number of blocks allocated to the file. Those may be reached in task>files>fdt>fd. Name of the current directory of the process, blocks that are cached for the process in the page cache, the storage device the block is in and the block number are also requested to reach and print. Reaching block number and page cache were not that easy. To do this, first i-node were reached on address space and number of pages were kept there. Then buffer-head of each page was reached(struct buffer_head* casted). That size gives us the allocated page for buffer_head and remaining datas were in buffer_head.h as shown in figure below.
 Additionally, we prepared an app.c program in order to test the processes and see their process datas defined above. In this test case, we open a file, write inside and read from it. As in implementation pid were given by hand inside the code. After run it, we get the pid of the process and add inside our code to see the output. All the information requested are listed inside the output defined as shown below. Because some of them may change system to system, different computers may give different outputs as well.
